To mark the creator of the object, centralizing admiration and building a relationship of seeing/consuming more from that creator over time.

To elevate an object out of its mere material existence to the pantheon of known entities.

> In the 19th century, “brand” was most often encountered in verb form–typically to brand livestock–or as a noun formation from the verb, as in the “branding” of cattle. It is the direct, searing application of proof of ownership by the owner of land and chattel. The average consumer became the owner of branded objects between the late 19th century, when modern consumer branding makes it fitful start, and the middle of the 20th century, when in its heyday branded advertising focused primarily on domestic goods marketed to women. So “brands” become a designation of uniqueness, but this designation became less of a literal denotation of property and more of a symbolic connotation of quality. Hence the once-popular, and now quaint adjective “brand-name,” used to distinguish a product from the generic store variety. Branding was a metaphor that drew on the original mark of ownership, but the supermarket brand connected symbolic associations to everyday products–retaining the claim of ownership while losing the material referent of its first use, as hot iron on living flesh. ([more](https://keywordsforcapitalism.com/2015/03/31/keywords-for-the-age-of-austerity-17-brandbrandingrebrand/))

Read: [Keywords by John Patrick Leary](https://www.haymarketbooks.org/books/1227-keywords).
